---

title: "Oscoin"
date: 2019-02-11
draft: true
markup: rst
author: "Oscoin Author"

---

======
Oscoin
======

   | It is in this light that we must recognize that only a restoration
     of open-source culture, and all that enables across the full
     spectrum of open-source possibilities, can allow humanity to
     harness the distributed intelligence of the collective and create
     the equivalent of heaven on Earth — in other words, a world that
     works for all.
   | – The Open-Source Everything Manifesto

Over the last few decades, with the emergence of open-source software,
we’ve experienced an unprecedented acceleration in the development of
our digital infrastructure, one that has become a new *commons* — a
public good we are now collectively responsible for. But we are all
familiar with cases like Heartbleed,1 with developer burn-out,2 with
projects acquired by ill-incentivized or incompetent parties.34 Today,
many valuable OSS projects are unable to define themselves in
traditional market terms,5 while others find it incompatible with their
ethics and struggle without financial support.

But what if we had the means to improve upon this? What if we could
create a decentralized network run by the community and contributors,
with a sustainable economy to back it — one in which profits would be
redistributed back to those who created value in the first place?

By combining distributed version-control, content-addressable
decentralized storage and distributed ledger systems such as blockchain,
we can fulfill this vision today.

We live in a time when the original promise of the internet has failed
us. Our online activity is owned by a few large corporations, and a
large part of open-source collaboration is locked in for-profit
products. What used to be an open and decentralized process 6 is now
controlled by a few major players. 7 The reason is that OSS is no longer
just about the code — it’s about much more today, including
distribution, hosting, collaboration and financing, and these
requirements were only able to be met by centralized for-profit
organizations.

--------------

By moving the open-source ecosystem onto the blockchain, backed by its
own cryptocurrency, we enable all of this activity to happen in the
open, in a network that cannot be censored or controlled by any one
party. But most importantly we enable fair and transparent
redistribution of proceeds generated by the network; through a system of
self-governance and smart-contracts operated and maintained by the
community.

The key components of such a system include:

-  A new token called **open source coin**.
-  A blockchain of commit hashes.
-  A permissionless network with proof-of-stake8 membership.
-  A treasury system as seen in Dash,9 to fund open-source work on the
   network, including oscoin’s own roadmap.
-  An on-chain governance system based on proposals, allowing atomic
   changes to smart-contract or regular code, including the oscoin
   protocol itself.
-  A community-owned ‘blessed’ code repository of smart-contracts
   defining the token distribution


Fundamentally, we are proposing a crypto-economy10 based on the ideas of
’inflation funding’11 and ’curation markets.’12 By design, token supply
increases at a predefined rate through minting. These newly minted
tokens are used to reward open-source projects. Furthermore, an open
marketplace is introduced in which participants can coordinate and
cooperate by exchanging tokens for work within the network.

We believe that with this infrastructure in place we’ll be able to solve
many of the core problems in open-source today, while also introducing
more developers to the new token economy.

Currently, we’re working on a prototype of the main protocol and a
technical whitepaper which will introduce all of these concepts in
depth, and present our solution more thoroughly.

We are talking to many members of the community and taking your feedback
to help make this a reality. If you’re interested in hearing more about
the project or would like to reach out, we can be found at: **hello** at
**oscoin** dot **io** — we’d love to hear from you.

Thanks for reading,

[@cloudhead](https://twitter.com/cloudhead) and
[@lftherios](https://twitter.com/lftherios)

--------------

1.  Heartbleed.
    http://veridicalsystems.com/blog/of-money-responsibility-and-pride/
    ↩
2.  Roads and Bridges. The Unseen labor behind our digital
    infrastructure
    https://www.fordfoundation.org/library/reports-and-studies/roads-and-bridges-the-unseen-labor-behind-our-digital-infrastructure/
    ↩
3.  The Node.js vs io.js: Why the fork?!?
    http://anandmanisankar.com/posts/nodejs-iojs-why-the-fork/ ↩
4.  The Sudden Death and Eternal Life of Solaris
    http://dtrace.org/blogs/bmc/2017/09/04/the-sudden-death-and-eternal-life-of-solaris/
    ↩
5.  Open-Source Won. So, Now What?
    https://www.wired.com/2016/08/open-source-won-now/ ↩
6.  Before GitHub, the majority of open-source contributions were sent
    as patches to maintainers on mailing lists. This is still how the
    Linux kernel project operates. ↩
7.  The Problem with putting all the world’s code on github.
    https://www.wired.com/2015/06/problem-putting-worlds-code-github/ ↩
8.  Proof-of-stake consensus.
    https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proof-of-stake ↩
9.  Dash’s “treasury system.”
    https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dash_(cryptocurrency)#Governance_and_funding
    ↩
10. Blockchains will replace networks with markets.
    [https://twitter.com/naval/status/877467629308395521?lang=en](https:/